---
layout: post
title: Next 100 days
category: life
permalink: next-100-days
---

1380 days

[Looking back at the last 12 years]({% post_url 2024-06-25-looking-back %}) of my personal & professional life, I realized that I needed to move the needle more toward reaching my goals. 

[Nathan](https://nathanbarry.com/) has been an inspiration and will always be. Early in his journey, he committed to writing 1000 words a day. [He continued his streak for 600+ days, and it changed his career](https://nathanbarry.com/commitment-changed-career/).


Similarly, I plan to fast-track my progress toward my goals by committing to the necessary actions for the next 100 days. 
#commitment

## Why 100 days:

- It takes time to form a habit. Various research shows that creating a habit takes continuous, consistent actions. The period varies from 18 days to 254 days. So I am taking an easy round number—100. It's short enough to evaluate/readjust as necessary and long enough to experiment with variations. 
- At the time of this writing, I have a little over 1.3K days to hit 40. I don't want to spend more than 10% of those days in the initial stages trying to plan/build. I acknowledge that these changes are going to be lifelong, and there will be multiple sprints. 
- I am a big personal finance/investment nerd. A vital aspect of personal finance and retirement planning is to start early and stay consistent. Applying the same principles here, early consistency and front-loading of efforts help when the magic of compounding kicks in. 

## Commitments for the next 100 days
- I will code every day. 
- I will write 1000 words every day.
- I will work out every day. 

Now, let's see how this goes. Good luck to me. 